docs: add Holopin badge guide for maintainers (#2161)
asyncapi/community: docs/040-guides/holopin-badge-workflow.md

---
title: Holopin Badge Workflow for Maintainers
description: Learn how to set up and use Holopin digital badges to recognize contributors in your repository.
weight: 30
---

## Introduction

> **Holopin badges** (stickers) are digital rewards maintainers give to recognize contributors. This guide is for repositories **inside the AsyncAPI GitHub organization** and shows, in order:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Holopin badges** (stickers) are digital rewards to recognize contributors. By following this guide, you'll learn how to:

1. Enable Holopin badges for repositories within the AsyncAPI GitHub organization.
2. Issue Holopin badges to contributors.
3. Request new badges or get support.
```

- **Enable**: Add the `get-global-holopin` topic so the shared Holopin setup auto-applies (no manual `holopin.yml` needed).
- **Issue**: Use the `@holopin-bot @username sticker-alias` comment to send badges.
- **Support**: Who to contact if you need new badges or help.

## Prerequisites

> At a glance, you need to: (1) create a Holopin account, (2) join the AsyncAPI Holopin org, and (3) link your GitHub account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before proceeding with the guide, make sure to:

1. Create a Holopin account.
2. Join the AsyncAPI Holopin organization to issue badges
3. Link your GitHub account.

Find more information about each of the steps below in the section.
```

---
title: Holopin Badge Workflow for Maintainers
description: Learn how to set up and use Holopin digital badges to recognize contributors in your repository.
weight: 30
---

## Introduction

Holopin badges (also called stickers) are digital badges that maintainers can issue to recognize and reward contributors for their work. This guide explains how to set up the Holopin badge workflow for your repository and how to issue badges to contributors.

> > **Reference:** See the [AsyncAPI's `holopin.yml` configuration](https://github.com/asyncapi/.github/blob/master/.github/holopin.yml) for a complete example.

Author: I have removed this from the introduction.

## Prerequisites

Before you can issue Holopin badges, you need to complete the following prerequisites:

> ### Create a Holopin Account

Reviewer: It's good to briefly mention all the prerequisite steps right in the "Prerequisites" section so that a person will know immediately what actions are required from them.

Listing all the steps as separate headings are a bad idea because, Imagine there is no table of contents to the right, so a person is forced to scroll till the end of the prerequisites section just to observe all the steps.

- Visit [holopin.io](https://holopin.io) and create an account

> - Complete your profile setup

Reviewer: This must be a numbered list
```suggestion
1. Visit [holopin.io](https://holopin.io) and create an account
2. Complete your profile setup
```

- Contact one of the following administrators to request access:
  Ask them to add you to the AsyncAPI Holopin organization so you can start issuing badges.
  
  - **@thulieblack** (GitHub)
  - **@derberg** (GitHub)

### Link GitHub Account

- Go to your [Holopin Account Settings](https://holopin.io/account)
- Link your Holopin account to your GitHub profile
- This enables the `@holopin-bot` to work in your repositories

## Setting Up the Badge Workflow

### Add the Repository Topic

To enable Holopin badges in your repository, you don't need to create a `holopin.yml` file manually. Simply add the `get-global-holopin` topic to your repository, and the configuration file will be automatically replicated from the [AsyncAPI `.github` repository](https://github.com/asyncapi/.github).

**Steps to add the topic:**

1. Navigate to your repository on GitHub
2. Click on the gear icon (⚙️) next to the "About" section, or click on the topics area
3. In the topics field, add `get-global-holopin`
4. Press Enter or click outside the field to save

The `holopin.yml` file will be automatically created in your repository's `.github` directory with all the necessary configuration.

> > **Note:** For more information about this automation, see the [AsyncAPI `.github` repository README](https://github.com/asyncapi/.github/blob/master/README.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** For more information about this automation, see the [`replicate_holopin_file` job](https://github.com/asyncapi/.github/blob/master/.github/workflows/global-replicator.yml#L271) within the global replicator workflow.
```

- **platinum-badge** - Platinum tier recognition
- **diamond-badge** - Diamond tier recognition

## Issuing Badges

Once you've added the `get-global-holopin` topic to your repository and the `holopin.yml` file has been automatically created, you can issue badges to contributors.

### How to Issue a Badge

1. Navigate to any **Issue** or **Pull Request** in your repository
2. Add a comment with the following format:

```
@holopin-bot @username sticker-alias
```

**Example:**
```
@holopin-bot @johndoe contributor-badge
```

This will issue the `contributor-badge` to the user `@johndoe`.

### What Happens Next

1. The `@holopin-bot` will process your comment
2. The bot will respond with a unique claim URL for the recipient
3. The recipient can click the link to claim their badge on their Holopin profile
4. The badge will appear on their Holopin profile and can be displayed on their GitHub profile

### Best Practices

- **Be specific:** Use the appropriate badge type for the contribution
- **Timely recognition:** Issue badges soon after contributions are merged or completed
- **Consistent criteria:** Establish clear criteria for each badge type in your repository

> - **Document usage:** Consider adding badge criteria to your repository's CONTRIBUTING.md or README.md

Reviewer: I would consider deleting this section

## Getting New Badges

If you need new badge types created for the AsyncAPI organization:

1. Contact **@thulieblack** or **@derberg** to request new badge designs

> 2. Once created, they will add the new badge to the central `holopin.yml` file in the `.github` repository

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Once created, new badge id(s) will be added to the main `holopin.yml` file in the `.github` repository
```

- **AsyncAPI `.github` Repository:** [https://github.com/asyncapi/.github/blob/master/README.md](https://github.com/asyncapi/.github/blob/master/README.md)
- **AsyncAPI Holopin Configuration:** [https://github.com/asyncapi/.github/blob/master/.github/holopin.yml](https://github.com/asyncapi/.github/blob/master/.github/holopin.yml)

## Troubleshooting

### Bot Not Responding

- Ensure you've added the `get-global-holopin` topic to your repository
- Verify the `holopin.yml` file exists in your `.github` directory (it should be automatically created)
- Verify you're a member of the Holopin organization
- Check that your GitHub account is linked to your Holopin account
- Make sure you're commenting in an Issue or Pull Request (not a discussion)

### Badge Not Issued

- Verify the sticker alias exists in the `holopin.yml` file (check the [central configuration](https://github.com/asyncapi/.github/blob/master/.github/holopin.yml))
- Check that the username is correct (include the `@` symbol)
- Ensure the bot has access to the repository
- Confirm the `get-global-holopin` topic is present on your repository

### Need Help?

If you encounter issues or need assistance:

> - Contact **@thulieblack** or **@derberg** on GitHub

Author: - Open an issue in a relevant AsyncAPI repository (for example, `asyncapi/community`) and mention **@thulieblack** or **@derberg** in the description so they’re notified

------

Is this okay?

---
title: Holopin Badge Workflow for Maintainers
description: Learn how to set up and use Holopin digital badges to recognize contributors in your repository.
weight: 30
---

## Introduction

Holopin badges (also called stickers) are digital badges that maintainers can issue to recognize and reward contributors for their work. This guide explains how to set up the Holopin badge workflow for your repository and how to issue badges to contributors.

> **Reference:** See the [AsyncAPI's `holopin.yml` configuration](https://github.com/asyncapi/.github/blob/master/.github/holopin.yml) for a complete example.

## Prerequisites

Before you can issue Holopin badges, you need to complete the following prerequisites:

### 1. Create a Holopin Account

> 1. Visit [holopin.io](https://holopin.io) and create an account

Reviewer 2: I would suggest not using numbers and stick to bullets for consistency and easy readbility

2. Complete your profile setup

### 2. Join the Holopin Organization

Repository maintainers must be members of the AsyncAPI Holopin organization to issue badges.

**To get added to the organization:**
- Open a Holopin account

> - Contact one of the following administrators to request access:

Reviewer 2: The sentence isn't clear enough to what they are requesting access for, add line 32 to the sentence here

## Introduction

**Holopin badges** (stickers) are digital rewards maintainers give to recognize contributors. This guide is for repositories **inside the AsyncAPI GitHub organization** and shows, in order:

- **Enable**: Add the `get-global-holopin` topic so the shared Holopin setup auto-applies (no manual `holopin.yml` needed).
- **Issue**: Use the `@holopin-bot @username sticker-alias` comment to send badges.
- **Support**: Who to contact if you need new badges or help.

## Prerequisites

At a glance, you need to: (1) create a Holopin account, (2) join the AsyncAPI Holopin org, and (3) link your GitHub account.

### Create a Holopin Account

1. Visit [holopin.io](https://holopin.io) and create an account
2. Complete your profile setup

### Join the AsyncAPI Holopin Organization

Repository maintainers must be members of the AsyncAPI Holopin organization to issue badges.

**To get added to the organization:**

> 1. Open a Holopin account

Reviewer: Why do I need to open my account (probably better to say "Open your Holopin account") if I then need to contact one of the org admins via GitHub?

Author: Hi @bandantonio as I have already covered account creation above so I think it's better I remove "Open your Holopin account"
